Landscapes of Power

themes:
capitalist juggernaut
consumerism
deification of brands
commoditization of space, hence social relations

lack of forces which connect us
lack of shared places to congregate
resistance to social gatherings e.g. occupy

control control control
surveillance
citing people for feeding homeless persons
sustaining class systems
valves of freedom

shopping is probably rivaled by sitting in front of a computer these days

what can we do to change the power structures?
contested landscapes

ownership of land
private control of space

QUIT THE GAME

I QUIT


Topic:
The forces which contribute to the commoditization of space.

The impact on freedom of commoditization of space.

Commodotization of space as oppressive hegemony

Whose freedom does commoditization of space support

Commoditization of space. Who benefits

Personal space. Commoditized space. who wins?

Control of space. Whose control?

How much space can someone own?


In chapter 5 of Landscapes, Winchester, Kong, Dunn introduce the concept of the commodification of space. This is a 


Spaces exist at varying scales; hence the systems which recognize and preserve their proprietors are similarly diverse. In chapter 4 of Landscapes, the authors demonstrate that wielders of power both exploit and modify landscapes to serve an (often capitalist) agenda. One expression of this exploitation that is prevalent in the Western world is the commodification of space. If, informed by our capitalist inclinations, we are to accept this commodified conception of space, it is prudent to ask: how much space ought a person be allowed to own? While a definitive answer to this question will elude us in this essay, the question will serve to indicate, ala reductio ad absurdum, the flaws with such a philosophy of space.

We can summarize the main thesis of the chapter as follows: the most effective forces of power employ institutionalised hegemonic control to assert and preserve their power and furthermore landscapes offer us expressions of these processes. The authors explore this thesis by examining cases of landscapes imbued with power relationships of nationhood, capital, class, race, gender, and intersections of these. These examples provide concrete evidence in attestation to the power of the relationships presented and the effectiveness of the hegemonic craft.

We must first address what rights are implied by ownership of space. These vary depending on the scale and context of the space: the types of buildings one can erect on an owned plot of land are subject to regionalized safety standards and zoning laws which prescribe the functions to which buildings of a certain locale must conform. As another example, the rights to adorn the space of one's own body are also regionally limited: in Saudi Arabia, it is compulsory by law for women to cover their faces by niqab in many sacred places; conversely, the Belgian city of Maaseik in 2004 has criminalised the wearing of niqabs and burqas. Hence, it is accurate to say that rights for the use of owned space are typically subject to regional discretion.

Perhaps our most intimate physical space is that of the body. Most of our fellow primates would agree that this space is highly individual and if it must have a proprietor, the self is clearly the rightful one. This is not to say however, that this space is not at risk of invasion: slavery, sexual slavery, and assault are forces which would indeed commodify this most personal space and assign its proprietorship to another party. Many governments worldwide attempt to protect their citizens from being physically subjugated in such ways, and the United Nation's Universal Declaration of Human Rights clearly outlines the personal freedoms which would prohibit these forces. Hence, the United Nations and national governments are respectively the regulator and arbiters of ownership rights to the body. It is also worth noting that these rights are often considered "unalienable", which is to say that ownership cannot be transferred under any circumstance.

We can expand our scope from the body to its immediate surroundings in a few ways. Most individualistically is the shelt

shelter

social space - private ownership

nature - anthropocentric definition in Landscapes

commodity is a result of capitalist hegemony
- even though it seems natural, it's NAAAT

